Maps Elevated Design Document

A “design document” for your project in the form of a Markdown file called DESIGN.md that discusses, technically, how you implemented your project and why you made the design decisions you did. Your design document should be at least several paragraphs in length. Whereas your documentation is meant to be a user’s manual, consider your design document your opportunity to give the staff a technical tour of your project underneath its hood.

Code Implementation
My project uses a total of four APIs: maps javascript, directions, geocoding, and elevation. I implement them using javascript inside an HTML file. To start, I create a function called initMap() where I initalize the google map by setting the coordinates to New Haven and setting the type of map to terrain (to capture elevation). This function is automatically run when the page starts. Next, I create a function geocodeAddress() where most of my code lies. This is run when the user hits submit. In this function, I use the geocode tool to convert the inputted addresses to a formatted address that the google maps directions service can handle. If the inputted addresses were not valid, I alert the user with the geocode error. I then input the origin and destination values and walking mode into a variable request. Using the directions service tool, I calculate the route passing in the request variable and then display the route on the map using the directions renderer tool. Next, I iterate through the points on the outputted route and get the latitude and longitude coordinates at each point. I then push these coordinates into the array path. Now, to display the elevation, I use the getElevationAlongPath tool and sample 300 points from the array path. To display these on a chart, I input the values into a data table by iterating thru each elevation count and adding a row into the data table, and then drawing the chart. While I'm iterating thru each elevation point, I also calculate the difference between each pair of consecutive points and add them to either the upslope total or the downslope total. I then calculate the ratio between the upslope and downslope and present it on the webpage.

Design Implementation

I designed my webpage to be simple and easy to use. Using bootstrap, I created a header with a turquoise color that I made the overall page color scheme. I changed the color of the buttons, the map path, and the chart columns so that they were all the same turquoise. Additionally, I sized all the elements so that you view them all on the page without having to scroll down. I also made sure that submit was grayed out after the user had already hit submit so that you wouldnt submit the same route twice. I added a footer to the page that contains a designed by line and a hyperlink to my contact information. Lastly, I changed the icon of the website to a mountain favicon.